Now, today's text comments are from the Watchtower article who is the King of the North today,
and that's the theme of our discussion this morning.
That Watchtower listed three requirements for a government to fill the role of the King
of the North.
First, it would interact directly with God's people.
Second, this King would show he's an enemy of Jehovah and his people.
And third, he would compete with the King of the South.
And in our discussion, we're going to consider three questions.
First, how has each King of the North throughout history shown hostility toward Jehovah and
his people?
Second, how does the current King of the North follow the pattern of those previous kings?
And third, how have God's people responded to his attacks?
So first, we want to look throughout history how each King of the North has shown enmity
toward Jehovah and his people.
Now the first King of the North mentioned in Daniel's prophecy was the salucid dynasty
that ruled the northern part of the Greek empire that had been conquered by Alexander
the Great.
Daniel foretold that this militaristic King would be occupied with his rival, read toward
the King of the South.
And at that time, it was the Ptolemaic dynasty of Egypt.
To unify his kingdom, the King of the North promoted Greek culture or Hellenism, and that
included the worship of the Greek gods.
When Antiochus the fourth ruled, he declared himself a pifenis, and that means the manifestation
because he was claiming to be a manifestation of the God Zeus.
He then took over the temple in Jerusalem, and he dedicated it to Zeus.
He built an altar over Jehovah's altar, and he sacrificed swine on it.
Then he took the broth from that swine and sprinkled it all throughout the temple.
This was an absolute act of contempt toward Jehovah and toward his people, and it resulted
in a Jewish uprising in which the temple worship was successfully restored, and Antiochus
was defeated.
Now think if Antiochus had succeeded in corrupting temple worship, when Jesus came to earth,
he could not have fully carried out the Mosaic law.
So it's no wonder that Jehovah did not allow this attack of the King of the North to succeed.
And as a side point, the study note on John 1022 shows that Jesus observed that festival
of dedication that was actually commemorating the victory over that first King of the North.
Next the Roman Empire assumed the role of the King of the North, and especially during
the reigns of Nero and Demission, they strongly opposed Christianity.
And insight on the scriptures explains one reason.
It says, quote, Rome tolerated almost any sort of religious practice, as long as those
who held to it would also share in the worship of the emperor.
Well, because Christians refused emperor worship, many of them were persecuted and even
executed by that King of the North.
Now coming down to the time of the end, the German Empire and later the Nazi regime assumed
the role of the King of the North, as our watch tower pointed out.
And the Nazis especially demanded worship of the state.
Religion was only tolerated if it supported state policies.
And in fact, in a 1933 radio address, Lutheran minister Otto, who was celebrating Hitler's
birthday at that time, explained that the ban on Jehovah's Witnesses in Saxony was the
direct result of close cooperation between the Lutheran Church and the Nazi regime.
The Nazis hated Jehovah's people for refusing to hire Adolf Hitler as their furor or leader.
We know that Hitler vowed to exterminate our brothers.
And some did become martyrs like Brother Dickman on the left, but others survived like this
group from the Gusen concentration camp that included Brother Martin Puttsinger.
But as a group, our brothers conquered the Nazi regime.
Their outstanding faith and integrity has been documented in countless accounts, including
the 1974 yearbook.
Now when the Nazi regime ended, the role of the King of the North was assumed by the Soviet
block of nations.
And Daniel 1137 foretold that this King would show no regard for the god of his fathers.
The Soviet regime was officially atheistic.
Daniel 1141 also foretold, as we heard in our comments, that he would invade the land
of decoration or the realm of activity of Jehovah's people.
Many thousands of our brothers were executed or exiled and some were executed because they
refused to compromise their worship of Jehovah under this atheistic regime.
Now after considering these few details, would you agree that every one of those kings
of the North would have classified our brothers as extremists?
Absolutely.
None of them would tolerate worship of Jehovah over worship of the state.
But coming down to our day, many of us remember the shock when the Soviet Union collapsed
in 1991.
The King of the North had suddenly vanished and it left only the King of the South, the
Anglo-American world power, standing.
So in 1993, the Watchtower expressed the questions of many.
So who is the King of the North now?
Is he to be identified with one of the countries that were part of the old Soviet Union?
Or is he changing identity completely as he has a number of times before?
Only time will provide the answers to these questions.
And the answer for us came at the 2018 annual meeting when it was clearly announced that
Russia and its allies were the new King of the North.
How does this current King of the North fit the pattern of previous kings of the North?
Well, although there was relative peace between the King of the North and South for a time
they were engaged again in a hostile pushing or a locking horns as our footnote mentions.
Now this term, the literal Hebrew term locking horns is used at Exodus 21 of a bull, goring
a man or a woman to death.
Also at 1 Kings 22-11, a false prophet used the term to refer to a violent goring of
the Syrians until they were exterminated.
So locking horns gives a picture of one bull trying to gore another to death until in
a violent fight to the death.
And we see an example of this violent pushing and locking horns in Ukraine today.
Like his predecessors in the last days, this King has also invaded the land of decoration
or the realm of God's people by labeling them extremists.
And he has shown extreme contempt for Jehovah.
Now one difference between Russia and the Soviet Union is that Russia is not officially
atheistic.
Currently it is in an unholy embrace with the Russian Orthodox Church.
But as we saw, other kings of the North also tolerated and even promoted religion.
They just demanded that religion be subservient to the state.
So Russia and its allies fit the pattern of the other kings of the North in every respect.
And this gives us full confidence that every detail of Daniel's prophecy is being fulfilled.
And finally, how have God's people responded to attacks of the King of the North?
We saw that Jehovah gave his people victory over the attack of Antiochus Epiphanes when
he invaded Jehovah's Temple.
Pergamum was a center of emperor worship in the first century.
And Jesus told Christians at Revelation 2.13, you keep holding fast to my name and you
did not deny your faith in me.
Our German brothers prevailed over the brutal Nazi regime.
One observer said, each member seems to be a fortress which can be destroyed but never
taken.
In other words, never conquered.
And we see powerful evidence that Jehovah is fortifying our Russian brothers today.